in this lesson i want to look at
reliability and predictability
very similar but they do have some
different considerations and attributes
when we really look at what's involved
in those
so if i think about reliability
if i think of azure as a cloud platform
problems will still happen
there are still servers behind the
scenes and disks behind the scenes and
so a node can fail a rack can fail
but when i think about the healing of
the cloud it will automatically do
certain automatic healing
so i can think about well
if a node had a problem if a rack had a
problem
my vm for example would get redeployed
automatically to another node to another
rack within that region or availability
zone whatever it was was the unit of my
deployment
if i think of storage services they
automatically have replicas of the data
for example if i think about just
regular azure storage account
at minimum there's always three copies
of my data then maybe that's three
copies spread over different racks in a
storage cluster
maybe it's spread over three
availability zones maybe additionally
there's then an async replica
to another region if i'm using a
database service well that sits on top
of this storage and then may have its
own replication of logs for example that
then get replayed into some copy of that
so we have various levels of reliability
from problems happening at node and disk
levels
i can also think about reliability of my
service and being able to respond to
changes in load
so we often think of things like auto
scale
the ability to add additional instances
of my service as the load increases so i
can meet that load and maintain a level
of performance that the users of that
service expect but also then decrease
the number of nodes as that load drops
to optimize my spend
so it's ensuring i have the capacity
available to meet the load without
wasting capacity
azure services have a certain sla
we can go and look at the service level
agreement of each service and so when i
think about well reliability
that's the financially backed commitment
from azure for that service now if my
service is comprised of multiple
different services then i get a
composite sla and that's going to maybe
be higher or lower depending on if i
need all of the services present or is
it an all relationship so it actually
increases my sla
now one of the key things when i think
about reliability
is i do have to think about design
for failure
and what does that mean
well i have to consider that hey there's
fantastic resilience features built into
azure at a data center level
but something could still happen at a
regional level so what i think about
designed for failure means multi-region
my service may be as active active over
multiple regions maybe it's active
passive
maybe it's active with a backup going to
another region my choice will depend on
how much data i can afford to lose my
recovery point objective
and how long i have to get up and
running again my recovery time objective
but i have to design for that
now also realize i have to monitor
because azure may be fine but my
application has a problem so i think
about using azure monitor application
insights and then creating alerts and
maybe then action groups to
automatically do something if there is
an actual problem
and then the other side of this remember
is the idea
predict
ability
now in azure one of the greatest things
we have is we have very defined skus
i have vm skus storage skus and they
have certain sizes and with that comes
very specific performance
characteristics if it's a vm for example
i get a certain acu an azure compute
unit that tells me the amount of
processor performance i'm going to get
i get a certain amount of memory there's
a certain iops limit for storage there's
a certain throughput limit for storage
there's a certain amount of network
throughput i get assigned i get a
certain number of vehicles based on the
skew and the size so we get very
specific dimensions
of hey what is the for example
performance we're going to get
i also get predictability in the form of
behavior
so i can think about
i have these very specific
ways i can interact i have the ideas of
different apis i have certain tools i
can use a template i get predictable
pricing
based on the region so there's a lot of
predictability about this
now some of this reliability comes into
that predictability aspect but we have
to be predictable as well
so what that means is in our
interactions
well i want to use templates
when i do deployments
this could be a json template it could
be a bicep file it could be a terraform
file
but i want to use that declarative
nature to deploy what i want i don't
want to be clicking buttons i want
predictability i want to make sure
things always deploy the same way
the same for other types of actions i
want to use automation
maybe that's automation responding to
certain types of events maybe that's
automation through powershell or the
azure cli to perform maintenance
activities
i might use things like devops
so when i think about my application i
have
those pipelines i might have continuous
integration continuous delivery
continuous deployment but it's done in a
very structured fashion that's not going
to vary depending on who's clicking
whatever buttons i have
so as much as possible really the key
thing here is this idea of automation
take out humans clicking buttons and
really drive that predictability azure
as a platform gives you predictability
my behaviors on top of it make sure i
continue that and encourage that much
easier way to maintain the environment